---
layout: post
title: Islam
description: >
  This document outlines what is Islam and what are its basic tenets
sitemap: false
hide_last_modified: true
---

# Islam

## What is a Religion?

Religion is a way of life, living, perspective, emotion, way of thinking.

## Who are Muslims?

**Muslims** are those who follow the religion of **Islam**. Muslims have complete faith in that Islam is 
- for *Peace*
- *Perfect* and *True*
- helpful for *this world* and the *afterworld*
- *Complete* way of Life and Living

## What is Islam?

Islam is -
- Having the Profession of Faith (Shahaadah)
- Praying 5 times a day (Salaah)
- Giving the poor and needy their due (Zakaah)
- Fasting and Restraining in the month of Ramandan (Sawm)
- Pilgrimage in the month of Zul Hijjah (Hajj)

## How does one declare that they have accepted Islam?

By speaking the Kalimah(s)

### Declaration (of Acceptance) of Good(ness) | Kalimah Tayyibah

> There is none worthy of worshipping except Allaah; Muhammad is the Messenger of Allaah

### Declaration (of Testification) of Profession of Faith | Kalimah Shahaadah

> I testify that, there is none worthy of Worshipping except Allaah, and I testify that, Muhammad is Allaah's servant and messenger.

### Declaration (of Glorification) of Allaah | Kalimah Tamjeed

> Glory be to Allaah, All praise be to Allaah, there is none worthy of woshipping besides Allaah, and AllaAh is the greatest, there is no Power and Might, except from Allaah, the most High, the Great.

### Declation (of Unity (Uniqueness)) of Allaah | Kalimah Tawhid

> There is none worthy of worship besides Allaah, who is alone, and has no partner, for him is the Kingdom, and for him is all praises, he gives life and causes death, in his hand is all good, and he has power over everything.

### Declaration (of Disproval) of Disagreement | Kalimah Radde Kufr

> O Allaah! I seek protection in You so that I do not join any partner with You knowingly. I seek Your forgiveness from the unknown. I repent for being ignorant. I free myself from disbelief, and joining partners with You and from all sins. I submit to Your will. I believe and declare: There is none worthy of worship except Allaah, and Muhammad is Allaah's Messenger.